anatomy of the locomotor apparatus osso et moi
de los boine a very particular bone
as a small part contributes
to the formation of the skull base
but it is also very articulate with all the
massive facial and plus the
our complex to see since it is for
get to have a good view
we have to demolish a large part of everything
the facial massif
as you can see and it's not even a
bone simple to describe as
despite being small enough
presents a whole series of holes e
it happens inside
but let's look at it in more detail
Here you can observe the mode alone
released from all other bones of the
skull looks like a pretty shape
irregular is actually simple to
describe if it splits it in the face
upper face shows up in this
way
we observe a very thin sheet
said to the pink cribb mina it presents
a series of microscopic holes in
guides run the nerve bundles
olfactory
I remember this is the roof of the
nasal cavity
this the mine therefore represents a
thin demarcation layer between the
the nasal cavity the intracranial cavity to
center is a crest called
christa galli also
if the lateral portion of the is observed
upper face you can see some
these cells will be incomplete cells
then closed by the cells of the incised rhythm
and from the frontal bone as we have
seen in the previous video
if we look at the bone et moi de dal
in front we can see this structure
vertical call to the mine
perpendicular to the perpendicular lamina
pro through the bottom and will go to
articulate with the vomer the bone of the
massive facial that will serve for
divide the internal nasal cavities
finally it can be observed as fashions
present two lateral masses or labyrinths
et moi from there the reason why these
structures are called mazes is
clear if you select the bone you can
in fact, note how their interior is
consisting of numerous structures
from the bombastic form they communicate
all between them and also communicate with
the orbit and with the nasal cavity
it is precisely once again of
paranasal sinuses in the complex i
labyrinths et moi dal and have a shape a
parallelepiped with longitudinal axis
the greater their external face
has a hooked structure at the bottom
known as the uncinate process of the etm
oid is instead the largest structure
laminate the side wall takes the
name of lamina papi racea for his
subtlety through which in
backlight cells can be observed
that there are inside and will contribute to
form the medial wall of the orbit
the front and back faces of the
maze it modal are rather flat
and they have some bases that are
due to the ampoules contained in them
indoor
but what is really interesting is the
medial face than you can
imagine contributing to form the
lateral wall of the nasal cavities
so let's observe it by sectioning
the bone et moi of so you can
bring more to the surface
here as you can see we have the lamina
perpendicular going to eliminate it
we are in front of the structure
medial of the labyrinths et moi from there as
you can see the medial face of the
labyrinths tmo italy presents
upper and lower nasal horns
these croissants are medium nasal horn
will have the function of dividing the
nasal cavity in different parts in order
to increase the epithelial surface to the
below the upper nasal cornet
there will be a hole called precisely
blessed superior the superior meatus
receives the outlet of the tmo cells and from there
superior and of the cells present
inside the spheroid bone instead of the
underneath the croissant you can best
observe the average meatus which is
corresponds to the exit hole of the
bubble et moi dal and on the lateral band
orbital at the interface with the front
two holes and video will be formed
front and rear thanks to which
the cells can communicate with
orbit and thanks which will be offered
passage from some vascular structures
and the scepter is nervous and is therefore one
show very small but at the same time very
complex and very important from the point
functional view
this video was shot using
anatomy learning a web app whose link
can be found in the description